Maxima's development history spans three distinct periods: The
research project at MIT, the stewardship of William Schelter and the
current Maxima project.

MACSYMA (Project MAC's SYmbolic MAnipulation System) was developed by
the Mathlab group of the MIT Laboratory for Computer Science
(originally known as Project MAC), during the years 1969-1972.  Their
work was supported by grants NSG 1323 of the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, N00014-77-C-0641 of the Office of Naval
Research, ET-78-C-02-4687 of the U.S. Department of Energy, and
F49620-79-C-020 of the U.S. Air Force.  MACSYMA was further modified
for use under the UNIX operating system (for use on DEC VAX computers
and Sun workstations), by Richard Fateman and colleagues at the
University of California at Berkeley; this version of MACSYMA is known
as VAXIMA.

William Schelter developed and maintained this version, Maxima, from
the project's inception until his untimely death in 2001. We are
eternally grateful for his enormous contribution.

William Schelter thanked the following people for having tested
the code under various common lisp implementations, and for helpful
comments:

hagiya%kurims.kurims.kyoto-u.junet%utokyo-relay.csnet@RELAY.CS.NET
  		(in kcl aosv)
steve@spock.ncsa.uiuc.edu  (Steve on sun/franz common lisp)
spar!malcolm@decwrl.dec.com (malcolm) sun/lucid
raible@orville.nas.nasa.gov (Eric Raible on iris(kcl))
fateman@peoplesparc.Berkeley.EDU (Richard Fateman)

As of November, 2001, the Maxima project is now supported by the work
of a team of people led by James Amundson and Richard Fateman.

The Maxima developers are:

Jay Belanger
David Billinghurst
Mike Clarkson
Steve Horne
Wolfgang Jenkner
Paulo Ney de Souza
Dan Stanger
Raymond Toy
Cliff Yapp
Vadim V. Zhytnikov

Maxima include contributions from:

Juan Pablo Hierro Álvarez
Tim Moore
Valerij Pipin
Fedor Bezrukov
Gosei Furuya
Barton Willis
Ole Rohne
Thomas A. Russ


Starting with version 5.9.0, Maxima uses mk::defsystem and (slightly
modified) run-lisp from the Common Lisp Open Code Collection,
<http://clocc.sourceforge.net>. The nregex code was written by
Lawrence E. Freil.
