@menu
* Introduction to etags::       
* Functions and Variables for etags::       
@end menu

@node Introduction to etags, Functions and Variables for etags, etags, etags
@section Introduction to etags

A @emph{TAGS} file is a structured database holding information about
source-code, see
@indicateurl{https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Ctags}. The
source code editors @emph{Emacs}, @emph{VI} and others, have in-built
facilities to use TAGS files.

@node Functions and Variables for etags,  , Introduction to etags, etags
@section Functions and Variables for etags

All global variables in Lisp special variables interned in the
@code{etags} package. Although the user can change them using the
special syntax @code{:lisp (setf etags::*foo*)} @xref{Keyword Commands},
it is preferable to pass options to the @code{etags} command.

@defvr {Global variable} *etags-regex-maxima-list*

@var{*etags-regex-maxima-list*} is the default list of regular
expressions to tag Maxima source code. It is a @emph{Lisp} special
variable in the @code{etags} package. There should be no reason to
change this variable.

@opencatbox
@category{etags} @category{Global variables}
@closecatbox

@end defvr

@defvr {Global variable} *etags-regex-lisp-list*

@var{*etags-regex-lisp-list*} is the default list of regular
expressions to tag Lisp source code. It is a @emph{Lisp} special
variable in the @code{etags} package. There should be no reason to
change this variable.

@opencatbox
@category{etags} @category{Global variables}
@closecatbox

@end defvr

@defvr {Global variable} *etags-max-recursion-depth*

@var{*etags-max-recursion-depth*} is the maximum depth of
subdirectories to tag. It is used to prevent infinite loops.

@opencatbox
@category{etags} @category{Global variables}
@closecatbox

@end defvr

@defvr {Global variable} *etags-tags-file*

@var{*etags-tags-file*} is the default name of the TAGS file. It is
@verb{"TAGS"}.

@opencatbox
@category{etags} @category{Global variables}
@closecatbox

@end defvr

@defvr {Global variable} *etags-default-directory*

@var{*etags-default-directory*} is the default directory to tag. It is
the current working directory.

@opencatbox
@category{etags} @category{Global variables}
@closecatbox

@end defvr



@deffn {Function} etags ()
@deffnx {Function} etags (@var{key_1} = @var{value_1},  ..., @var{key_n} = @var{value_n}))
@deffnx {Function} etags ([@var{key_1}, @var{value_1}], ..., [@var{key_n}, @var{value_n}])

Without any arguments, @code{etags} tags Maxima source files in the
current directory and all subdirectories. Optional argument(s) can alter
this behaviour. They can be passed as a key-value pair @var{key} =
@var{value} or [ @var{key} , @var{value} ], and these forms can be used
together.

The accepted options and their default values are:

@table @code

@item file_regex_list
This is a list of regular expressions. A file, to be tagged, must match
at least one of these regular expressions. Default: @code{[
"\.ma[cx]$", "\.de[m0-9]" ]}. Stored in:
@var{*etags-file-regex-list*}.

@item directory_list
List of directories to be tagged. Default: Maxima's current directory.
Stored in: @var{*etags-default-directory*}.

@item regex_list
List of alternating sequences of regular expressions and the number of
the capture register. The list @code{[ "([a-zA-Z_]+)\s*\(\S*\)\s*:?:=" , 1 ]},
for example, will find all Maxima function and macro definitions,
with the function/macro name containing only alphabetic and @samp{_}
characters. Default: see @var{*etags-regex-maxima-list*}.

@item tags
The name of the TAGS output file. Default: @verb{"TAGS"}. Stored in:
@var{*etags-tags-file*}.

@item recursion_depth
The maximum depth of a sub-directory to be tagged. If 0 (or less), then
only the current directory is tagged. Default: 25. Stored in:
@var{*etags-max-recursion-depth*}.

@item verbose
If @code{true}, print additional information during tagging. Default:
@code{false}.

@item append
If @code{true}, output is appended to the TAGS file; otherwise, the TAGS
file is overwritten. Default: @code{false}.

@end table

@opencatbox
@category{etags} @category{Operators}
@closecatbox

@end deffn
